---
layout: post
title: "CCP-TEPP Summer School in Software Techniques for Particle Physics 2026""
date: 2026-06-29 09:00 +0100
textdate: "2026-06-29"
location: Swansea University
---

The proto-CCP-TEPP project is pleased to announce that
registration is open for the first
[CCP-TEPP Summer School in Software Techniques for Particle Physics][indico].

The school will be hosted at Swansea University’s Singleton Campus,
from 29 June&ndash;3 July 2026.
Topics will cover areas identified as
skills gaps common in the particle physics software community
during the CCP-TEPP roadmapping exercise,
including:

- Automated testing of software
- Documentation of code for readability
- Workflow management for automated data analysis
- Open science
- Data sharing

These will be covered by a mix of lecture-style talks and hands-on workshops.
The full programme and list of instructors will be confirmed closer to the event.

Researchers in particle physics who touch code as part of their work&mdash;in
particular,
PhD students and postdocs&mdash;*are
encouraged to apply.
Workshop costs for UK particle physics researchers,
including travel, accommodation, and food,
will be fully funded.

Our project is committed to equity, diversity, and inclusion
within the community;
if there are financial reasons beyond typical travel expenses
that would preclude you participating,
we can offer additional support&mdash;for
example,
we would be able to cover childcare costs,
and if you are unable to navigate public transport or drive due to disability,
we can explore other travel options that might allow you to be present.
Since the aim of the project is to facilitate closer networking,
the event will be in person;
however,
again,
we do not wish to be exclusionary:
if you are unable to participate in in-person events,
please let us know
and we can try to facilitate alternative means of participation.


The proto-CCP-TEPP
(Collaborative Computational Project in Theoretical and Experimental Particle Physics)
project is funded by CoSeC to bring together the particle physics community
to define a roadmap for the future of software in particle physics,
with the aim to ultimately form a CCP in this field,
to try and ensure that the software needs of the community
are better supported and resourced.

Registration is open at [https://indico.global/e/ccp-tepp-school-2026][indico].

[indico]: <https://indico.global/e/ccp-tepp-school-2026>
