---
layout: post
title: "CCP-TEPP Spring Docathon for Particle Physics Software 2026"
date: 2026-03-18 14:00 +0000
textdate: "2026-03-18"
location: University of Warwick
---

The proto-CCP-TEPP project is pleased to announce that
registration is open for the first
[CCP-TEPP Docathon for Particle Physics Software][indico].

This hackathon style event will be hosted
at the University of Warwick
from 18&ndash;20 March 2026,
focusing on adding and expanding documentation for
software packages in use by and developed by this community.
Improving documentation was identified as a key need
by the particle physics software community during the CCP-TEPP roadmapping exercise:

- In the code itself to assist developers understand origin, intent and behaviour.
- Guides and manuals for end users.
- Checking, building, and deploying documentation as part of a CI/CD workflow.

The event format will thus be hands-on,
with guidance from Research Software Engineers experienced in these areas.
Participation as small teams is strongly encouraged
to ensure an effective and collaborative experience.
Attendees should bring the code they wish to improve documentation for
under one or more of the above topics.
Individual participants are welcome;
however,
team attendance is recommended given the limited number of RSE guides.
Researchers in particle physics who touch code as part of their work&ndash;in
particular,
PhD students and postdocs&mdash;are encouraged to apply.
Workshop costs for UK particle physics researchers,
including travel, accommodation, and food,
will be fully funded.

Our project is committed to equity, diversity, and inclusion
within the community;
if there are financial reasons beyond typical travel expenses
that would preclude you participating,
we can offer additional support&mdash;for
example,
we would be able to cover childcare costs,
and if you are unable to navigate public transport or drive due to disability,
we can explore other travel options that might allow you to be present.
Since the aim of the project is to facilitate closer networking,
the event will be in person;
however,
again,
we do not wish to be exclusionary:
if you are unable to participate in in-person events,
please let us know
and we can try to facilitate alternative means of participation.

The proto-CCP-TEPP
(Collaborative Computational Project in Theoretical and Experimental Particle Physics)
project is funded by CoSeC to bring together the particle physics community
to define a roadmap for the future of software in particle physics,
with the aim to ultimately form a CCP in this field,
to try and ensure that the software needs of the community
are better supported and resourced.

Registration is open at
[https://indico.global/e/ccp-tepp-docathon-2026][indico].

[indico]: <https://indico.global/e/ccp-tepp-docathon-2026>
