---
layout: post
title: "CCP-TEPP Hadrons User Workshop 2026"
date: 2026-04-14 09:00 +0000
textdate: "2026-04-14"
location: University of Edinburgh
---

As part of the CCP-TEPP roadmapping workshops,
a common challenge across many lattice collaborations is
improving the flexibility,
performance,
and GPU-suitability of observable computation codes.
Multiple groups expressed an interest in testing migrating their workflows to Hadrons,
a flexible, GPU-enabled software suite built on the Grid framework.

To reduce the barrier for collaborations and research groups
in getting started with Hadrons,
CCP-TEPP is organising a workshop/hackathon event at the Higgs Centre,
University of Edinburgh,
from April 14&ndash;15. 

The aim of this workshop is to familiarise participants with Hadrons,
a well-established GPU-ready tool
for designing lattice QCD observable measurement workflows
based on the Grid software library,
and to give participants the opportunity to write Hadrons workflows
to address their own physics of interest.
Additionally, this workshop seeks to discover
what additional functionality is desired in Hadrons
to enable a wider variety of community workflows.
The workshop will begin with an introductory talk from Antonin Portelli,
the main developer of Hadrons,
and lightning talks from participants to outline their objectives for the workshop,
after which participants can start using Hadrons with assistance from the developers.
Small teams are encouraged,
however,
individual participants are also very welcome.

The workshop will last 14th&ndash;15th April.
Meeting space will also be available 16th-17th April
for any participants that would like to continue working,
with Hadrons developers available.
Please indicate whether you have interest in this during registration.
Registration is open at [https://indico.ph.ed.ac.uk/e/ccp-tepp-hadrons][indico].

[indico]: <https://indico.ph.ed.ac.uk/e/ccp-tepp-hadrons>
